IBM SPEED Program is designed to help IBM teans Show thier client IBM capabilities through the lens of innovation.
IBM has many excellent experiential selling options, such as Client Engineering to bring active demonstrations of our offerings to your clients. You should use these established programs when you can. They are set up to help and do a great job.

If your client needs to see something not supported by one of the existing programs, if your demonstration requires resources not readily available, or if you just need help coordinating work across many parts of IBM, SPEED can help.
IBM SPEED is an intrapreneurial venture capital innovation program that invests expertise and funding to accelerate demonstrations of innovation. Our mission is to: Create value through innovation that matters for our most important clients. And do it fast. We do this all through execution excellence to win for you and IBM. Use us to help wow your clients.

A typicsl SPEED project is where we invests in innovation projects that clearly and quickly demonstrate value for our clients, are innovative in the eyes of the client and help drive IBMs strategy. The SPEED team invests technical expertise and up to $100,000 on strategic deals with an expectation of 100-1000x Return on Investment in signings.  The best submissions include the following elements: A solid business case and win plan Executive sponsorship at customer and within IBM High potential for reuse and repeatability Solid technical resource and execution plan.  Many SPEED projects are first of a kind, where we open up new areas of technology, that IBM have an intereste in, first of a kind ventures, projects that yield a great ROI that need investment to get them over the line.  SPEED is not for product development, for existing and well known technology as this should be business as usual for our teams. 

If you think you have a customer opportunity that requires help from the SPEED program, there are a few steps you should follow.  First reach out to one of the team to discuss and complete a Green Sheet that captures the opportunity details, your plan, team, client details, and value to IBM. If this looks like a good idea we will ask you to develop your SPEED pitch, which we will help you shape and coach you with.  Your SPEED pitch will focus on how the project you are proposing shows the following criteria:
The value of the innovation,
The differentiating value of partnering with IBM,
The reuse opportunity and plan,
The process will start with the client and opportunity landscape and then go,through the technical details of the proposed project,
Estimated time: Varies, depending on project size and scope.
Next we will get you and your team to Pitch your idea in a 60 minute meeting, the first half of this meeting is for your pitch and the second half is for Q&A.  After the the meeting we spend up to 24 hours reviewing and if the idea is good for IBM we fund, and align you with a couple of Innovation Leaders from the SPEED team, who will support you for the next couple of years. The process here is similar to the TV series Shark Tank in the US or Dragons Den in the UK. You will pitch your project to the SPEED team and business and technical SMEs from across IBM. Typically, your sponsoring executive will also attend. Within two business days, you will have a decision on whether your proposal is selected as a SPEED project.  Estimated time: Two business days from presentation to decision.

If you have an idea, the speed team is made up of Kathy Sullivan, (VP Global Head of SPEED Program), Eric Jenney (Program Director), Jeffrey Alter (Distinguished Engineer), Andy Stanford-Clark (Distinguished Engineer and Master Inventor), Jack Kouloheris PhD (Innovation Leader), Ben Grisz (Data Scientist), Carlos Hoyos (STSM), Ulrich Schimpel PhD (Executive Architect), Jane Snowdon PhD (Innovation Leader), Kirsten VanRiper (Innovation Leader), Dr Dinesh C Verma FREng (IBM Fellow  and SPEED Innovation Leader), Moya Brannan (SPEED Innovation Leader), Dr Peter Santhanam (SPEED Innovation Leader), Spa (Distinguished Engineer and Innovation Leader), and Markus van Kempen (Mensch, Maker and Nerd).
SPEED is an IBM venture capital program, designed to provide stimulus funding and resources to innovative, client-driven demonstration projects, with the goal of driving IBM revenue. We provide cash investments and access to our team of highly skilled technical resources, including several distinguished engineers, executive architects and senior technical staff members, to help you execute your vision.
SPEED is different because SPEED Engages in POCs and Demonstrations that are outside of the parameters of the existing experiential selling programs.  Consider this: We are IBM's only pre-sales organization that sits outside a Business Unit or geo. We don't look at organizational limitations. We care only about creating success in the eyes of the customer with our technology and services
SPEED is different becuase Outside of being able to provide funding, our position in IBM's Corporate Strategy division helps provide the following unique items: The ability to bring top IBM executives and resources to Proof of Concept (POC), regardless of BU or geo affiliation.  Program management where failure is not an option
The funding is not restricted to any specific brand or services group. It can be used for a wide range of approved expenses required to execute your project. Funding can be spent internally or externally, as long as it fits within the business plan you have developed and we have reviewed. Internal spend will be for resource "cost recovery" rates to IBM business.
When selecting project we have defined a charter and chosen projects based on the following factors: Does the project drive technical or business innovation or both in the eyes of the customer and IBM? Is there executive sponsorship with the customer and within IBM? Does the project fit within IBM's strategic imperatives and key technical battles? Will the project generate good ROI over the next 18 months? Is there a solid business case, technical architecture and delivery plan?Can the code and intellectual property be reused in other clients and industry sectors?
If your proposal does not get approved you will typically get options in how the proposal should change to better meet our criteria for approval or be directed to other organizations within IBM that may have an interest and can further help. We also may engage outside a formal approval in helping a strategic client or specific situation.
You do not have to pay back the SPEED investment.  We do not have any impact on your return.  We only look to identify influenced opportunities that exist in IBM Sales Connect that move to WON.
You may have noticed in our 4Q2023 blog that SPEED funded 16 exciting projects through October. The SPEED team was just getting warmed up! In November and December, we funded 5 more projects aligned with our corporate strategy of deploying watsonx and delivering Quantum Safe into client opportunities to end 2023 with 21 funded projects. These 21 client opportunities will highlight the best of IBM technology and outcome-based innovation. The 5 newly approved projects will:
Apply GenAI to Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) regulations in Europe
Give clients platform flexibility with on-premise AMD GPU-enabled GenAI: watsonx and Fusion HCI
Create a Legal AI Assistant by applying LLMs for contract analysis
Deploy Quantum Safe with C# to support the banking industry
Develop Watsonx Code Assistant for RedHat Ansible Lightspeed
Programs funded by the SPEED program returned $186M to the IBM Corporation. Lets look at some highlights: 
AIOps continued to help our telecommunications customers reduce network downtime and identify issues before major outages.   Congratulations to the STC and Telstra teams.
zDigital Integration Hub continued to help large banking customers modernize their systems and make real time information available from previously batch oriented systems.
LinuxOne and the modernization of the MongoDB install based at Citigroup continues to be a winning solution. 
The transition to Industry4.0 and the instrumentation of the plant floor continues at Volkswagen. 
Ever wonder how the drive-thru at McDonalds knows you are ready to place an order?
What can you do to bring the best of IBM to a client? Reach out to the SPEED team for aid making these ideas into reality.
some of the clients we have worked with are, Nationwide Building Society, HSBC, NatWest, Citi Bank, Roche, 